Rewrite of developing plugins section in Gradle User Manual -> Authoring Gradle Builds (#28167)
gradle/gradle: platforms/documentation/docs/src/docs/userguide/authoring-builds/plugins/implementing_gradle_plugins_precompiled.adoc

// Copyright (C) 2023 Gradle, Inc.
//
// Licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License.;
// you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
// You may obtain a copy of the License at
//
//      https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/
//
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
// distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
// WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
// See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
// limitations under the License.

[[implemention_precompiled_plugins]]
= Implementing Pre-compiled Script Plugins

A *precompiled script plugin* is typically a Kotlin script that has been compiled and distributed as Java class files packaged in a library.

> These scripts are intended to be consumed as binary Gradle plugins and recommended to be used as convention plugins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These scripts are intended to be consumed as binary Gradle plugins and are recommended for use as convention plugins.
```

----
// Create a variable for the greeting using Gradle managed properties
val message: Property<String> = null

// Print and find the greeting in a txt file using project.layout
println("Hello, ${file(project.layout.buildDirectory.file("defaultGreeting.txt")).readText()}")
----

You can find out more about working with files lazily in <<working_with_files.adoc#working_with_files,Working with Files>>.

[[sec:getting_input_from_the_build]]
== Making a plugin configurable using extensions

*Extension objects* are commonly used in plugins to expose configuration options and additional functionality to build scripts.

When you apply a plugin that defines an extension, you can access the extension object and configure its properties or call its methods to customize the behavior of the plugin or tasks provided by the plugin.

A link:{groovyDslPath}/org.gradle.api.Project.html[Project] has an associated link:{javadocPath}/org/gradle/api/plugins/ExtensionContainer.html[ExtensionContainer] object that contains all the settings and properties for the plugins that have been applied to the project.
You can provide configuration for your plugin by adding an extension object to this container.

> Let's update our  `greetings` example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's update our `greetings` example:
```

// Set a default value for 'message'
extension.message.convention(project.layout.buildDirectory.file("defaultGreeting.txt").get().asFile.readText())
----

`extension.message.convention(...)` sets a convention for the `message` property of the extension.
This convention specifies that the value of `message` should default to the content of a file named `defaultGreeting.txt` located in the build directory of the project.

If the `message` property is not explicitly set, its value will be automatically set to the content of `defaultGreeting.txt`.

[[sec:mapping_extension_properties_to_task_properties]]
== Mapping extension properties to task properties

Using an extension and mapping it to a custom task's input/output properties is common in plugins.

In this example, the message property of the `GreetingPluginExtension` is mapped to the message property of the `GreetingTask` as an input:

.buildSrc/packaging/src/main/kotlin/greetings.gradle.kts
[source,kotlin]
----
interface GreetingPluginExtension {
    val message: Property<String>
}

val extension = project.extensions.create<GreetingPluginExtension>("greeting")

// Create a greeting task

> class GreetingTask : DefaultTask() {

Reviewer: ❗ This should be a snippet, so that it remains current.  

It should also create an `abstract class` for the task, so that you don't need to do `projects.objects.property<String>()` explicitly.

The `abstract` part applies to all example tasks and plugins, I didn't remember to check for this until now.
